Up to this point we learned that the power of Python really comes into play when we talk about modules
but more importantly when we talk about the standard library that it comes with that is the ability
for us to have these built in modules that we can just import into Python to extend the language and
have things like random module the CIS module to be able to use in our code.
And these were called the standard library.
But the true power of Python and I argue the reason that Python is such a big part of any company really
in this day and age and why Python has just exploded in popularity is because of this third part it's
because of developers like you and I who have the ability to create our own Python files.
Thousands millions trillions of Python files and actually share them with each other so that we can
actually instead of just having our own code our own standard library code that we download with our
Python interpreter also have all the code that others share on the Internet so that we don't keep reinventing
the wheel if somebody else wrote a really really good module that maybe can be used in another project
across the world.
Well they can share it and we can import.
We can download that module and imported into our project and that's why really amazing libraries like
numbed by pandas tensor flow all these things that we're going to talk about later in the course our
libraries built by the outside developer community not the Python community but in general just developers
like you and I or developers working at Google it could be developers that are working in South Africa
that are working in Fiji.
It doesn't matter.
We're able to use each other's code and we're able to do that using the pip install comment and in these
next couple of videos you're going to see the true power of Python how we're able to stand on the shoulders
of giants learn from previous mistakes so that we don't constantly reinvent the wheel if we want to
build a game if we want to build a Web site we don't have to code it absolutely from scratch we can
use bits and pieces modules in libraries from all these different parts to combine it so that we can
fast track and build our project even faster.
So how can we do this.
How can we use this knowledge base of the world.
Well we have a Web site for that.
It's called the python package index or pipe for sure as you can see.
Bye bye Dada and right now there are a hundred and eighty two thousand projects three hundred and thirty
five thousand users on this Web site that I've shared code that you can use unlike the python module
index which I mean had a lot but that's it.
This has a lot more let's say I wanted to do email Well look at all the packages that I have for sending
email with my code.
Let's say I wanted to do let's say image optimization with code well look at that.
All these packages for image optimization that I can do what if for example I wanted to I don't know
read Excel files or CSP files.
Well there's packages for that as well.
And there are a lot of them.
Pretty much anything you need.
He can probably find on here now a good practice is to first check that something exists in well the
built in module.
Maybe the standard python module standard library has it already.
Otherwise you come over here.
Now you get really really good at noticing which projects are good.
Which projects are bad.
For example if I click on here I can read about the project.
I can see who's worked on the project.
I can see what kind of license it has.
I can see what Python programming language version it's compatible with but I can also look at their
release history and see well.
Has this person been working on this project recently.
Doesn't look like too much has happened with this project.
So you get really really good at deciding which packages are good.
Which ones are bad.
You can go to the home page of the project.
What I like to usually do is let's say I wanted to read CSB files I would say read CSC Python 3 and
then say maybe built in.
See if there's any built in modules and I see over here that there's some Python documentation official
documentation that maybe I can read and I see that it has import CSC so I can go to over here and just
check hey is CSP actually a built in module.
Oh yeah looks like it is.
So I probably should use that because I mean if it's a built in module I'm sure the Python community
has worked really really hard to make sure that it works well but maybe I wanted some extra features
that I can't find here.
In that case I would just go back and maybe type in instead of built in pure IP and now I can just browse
through these and see which one I like.
There are so many packages that you can do pretty much anything you want.
That's the beauty of Python this massive community and it's not just python.
There's communities like javascript that use instead of Pi by they use NPM.
You have Ruby developers that use something like Ruby gems.
This is what programmers do.
They share code so that others can use it.
And most of these are just completely free to use.
You can use them in your code and not have to worry about it which is really really nice.
And on top of that you can also create your own packages if you wrote a really really nice module that
you want to share.
You can publish your own packages to the Python package index but enough talk about this let's actually
learn how to use this power how to install something from third party developers that we can use in
our program and by the way I'm about to show you a few little packages but in our final projects where
we build over 10 projects we're gonna be using a lot of these so we're going to learn a lot more later
on in the course.
So don't worry I'm going to cover some really exciting ones like texting e mail reading PDX checking
out images and machine learning Excel and a ton a ton of things so bear with me as we start to learn
about pip install.